# Meeting minutes 2021-06-01 (17:15 - 18:00)

## Present

* **Chair**: Carlo Landmeter
* **Scribe**: Natanael Copa
* Kevin Daudt

## Agenda item: libera.chat IRC namespace & channels

* Carlo follows up

## Agenda item: Alpine discord

* The council has nothing against endorsing discord as long as we have volunteers that can manage it and make sure that the
  Alpine Code of Conduct is followed. Carlo follows up.

## Agenda item: TSC

* Natanael follows up with current core team members
* being a member should mean something, so members are expected to participate
* we believe there will monthly meetings
