# Meeting minutes 2021-08-24 (17:15 - 18:00)

## Present

* Chair: Natanael Copa
* Scribe: Kevin Daudt
* Carlo Landmeter
* Kaarle Kunkku (Consultant)

## Follow-up

### Write an article about the council

Assigned to Kevin and Carlo. Has not been done yet. Need to pick a moment to do
it. Provide a draft for ncopa. Need to make sure the article is clear for others
and ensures this is not a major change in direction.

### Legal entity

This is not urgent, so lets not rush it. We keep researching options and see
what suits us. The [issue][issue6] provides some options.

Main goal is to protect individual members from financial liability, though, at
the moment no one is using personal their credit-card for hosting.

Another goal is to protect individual members against legal action.

Third goal is the be able to accept donations as an organization.

The question is whether the overhead is worth the benefits, we will need to
research that. We could contact projects like NLnet to ask for advise. Carlo can
contact them.

Conclusion: We will post-pone this issue for later.
Follow-Up: Carlo

### Document the governance structure

Assigned: Kevin

Goal: Adjust the governance handbook to document the current structure.
Follow-up: Kevin, ask Nathan Angelacos to help

One thing to document: Who assigns the council members, how are members removed
from the council and how to deal with members resigning.

Our current view is that the council decides who will be on the council. We want
to keep the direction of the project stable.

Umbrella projects might expect a certain governance style. Has influence on what
we do regarding legal entities.

Is the TSC involved in any decision making regarding members? We could have
special provisions in case for example someone disappears. It's a good idea to
consult the TSC in general.

Task: Document and communicate how the community can bring up issues.

## New points

### How to handle monetary contributions

Something documented on [the wiki][alpine-developers], but it's severely
outdated.

We probably want to move this to the official documentation.

Question: who do we list as potential receivers of donations?

Hypothetical situation: what if some company wants to buy Alpine Linux?

A legal entity would help a lot with these situations. These issues have been
handled until now, we could wait until the entity has been setup.

Right now, we could point a potential donor to individual members.

Task: remove the developers wiki page

## Postponed

* Document the scope of the Council

[issue6]: https://gitlab.alpinelinux.org/alpine/council/-/issues/6
[alpine-developers]:https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Alpine_Linux:Developers
