# Meeting minutes 2021-06-08 (17:15 - 18:00)

## Present

* Chair: Natanael Copa
* Scribe: Kevin Daudt
* Carlo Landmeter

## Follow-up previous meeting

* libera.chat
  * Handled, Ariadne will handle the technical part
* discord
  * Handled
* TSC members from core team
  * All existing members who were contacted indicated they want to be part of
    the TSC, they understood it means a commitment.
  * Need to work out the details of the TSC, and document it

## Agenda item: Drop mips64 for Alpine 3.14

* No objection from the council. Follow up: ncopa
* For new architectures, make sure we want to commit to stable releases

## Agenda item: expectations from TSC members

* Should be trusted and respected
* Should have social skills, being able to coordinate
* Example in following the code-of-conduct
* Willing to mentor new TSC members
* Not expected to be a permanent role

## Agenda item: how do we improve communication with the community

* *Problem*: how will people of the community know about the council, where meeting
  minutes are published, etc.
* Make better use of the website, write an article about the council Follow-up:
  clandmeter, kdaudt
* In addition, send it to the mailing list

## Other points

* Skip the meeting in the week of the 29th of June due to absence of members.
