# Meeting minutes 2021-10-19 (17:15 - 18:00)

## Present

* **Chair**: Kevin Daudt
* **Scribe**: Carlo Landmeter
* Natanael Copa

## Follow-up

### Write an article about the Council

Initial draft has been made but has been put on hold until more is clear/defined regarding the Council.

### Legal entity

Status: Postponed until more is clear/defined regarding the Council.

### Document the governance structure

Request Kaarle Ritvanen to regular join our Council meetings as consultant to support on setting up the governance structure. Include him in the email invites.

## New points

### The scope of the Council (DRAFT)

#### Including

* Council defines the goals and philosophy of the project and document it on our website
* Council handles potential finance and legal matters
* Council decides its own membership
* Council is responsible for all the assets

#### Excluding

* Technical matters which can be resolved by the TSC
* Developer relationships

### Items regarding the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) 

* Groups under the TSC will be named Special Interest Groups (SIG groups)
* New members of the TSC will be nominated from members from existing SIG groups. The Council will work together with the TSC to appoint new members based on reputation(needs to be defined).
