# Meeting minutes 2021-05-27 (17:15 - 18:00)

## Present

* **Chair**: Kevin Daudt
* **Scribe**: Carlo Landmeter
* Natanael Copa

## Agenda item: The structure and role of the Technical Steering Committee (TSC)

* TSC will be built around the current core team as defined in [Gitlab](https://gitlab.alpinelinux.org/groups/Core/-/group_members)
* TSC will coordinate all current teams
* Current teams are:
  * Development
  * Infrastructure
  * Documentation
  * Security
  * Cloud 
* TSC will (for now) operate in a similar way as Fedora [FRESCo](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fesco/#_common_tasks_and_responsibilities)
* Each team will have assigned a team lead as currently defined or else defined by the TSC

## Agenda item: Documenting process of the governance structure

* Kevin will take responsibility in setting up the structure
* Carlo will support in writing documentation

## Agenda item: reschedule council meetings

* Reschedule council meetings to Tuesday 17:15 weekly (instead of Thursday) 

## libera.chat IRC namespace & channels (Gitlab issue [#1](https://gitlab.alpinelinux.org/alpine/council/-/issues/1))

* Register the channels under the new group/namespace
* Find users who are capable and interested to manage the IRC channels (Operators)
* Delegate control to a group to manage channels and cloaks

## Alpine discord (Gitlab issue [#2](https://gitlab.alpinelinux.org/alpine/council/-/issues/2))

* Postponed to next Council meeting due to time constraints

## Action items

### Documenting process of the governance structure

* Followup: @ikke
* Deadline: TBD

### Register Libera.chat channels

* Followup: @clandmeter
* Deadline: 2021-06-1

### Delegate control over Libera channels and users

* Followup: @clandmeter
* Deadline: TBD

