# Meeting minutes 2021-06-15 (17:15 - 18:00)

## Present

* Natanael Copa
* Chair: Kevin Daudt
* Scribe: Carlo Landmeter

## Follow up previous meeting

* Writing an article about the council (Status: pending)

## Agenda Item: MIPS Support

* Drop support for 3.14
* Try to bring support back in 3.14.1 when builder has catched up

## Agenda Item: Legal entity

* Create an issue to track it
* Do we actually need it
* The reason for now looks mostly financial
* See how we could implement it and with support of some organization/structure
* Would it matter in which country we set it up
* Postpone further discussion for next month

## Agenda Item: Commissioning the TSC

* Create a TSC project (Follow up Kevin)
* Setup an initial meeting with the members (Follow up Natanael)
* Create an agenda to discus in our first TSC meeting (Follow up Carlo)
* Do we need to have a TSC irc channel to discus sensitive matters
